so in this video we're going to have a
look at using your list view to display
something a bit more complex than just a
single text widget now you can of course
display any of the values from the XML
that you want but I've chosen to show
the name of the application the artist
and the summary so here's the challenge
you want to create a constraint layout
containing three textview widgets
arranged one below the other so that
they match the image you can see
on-screen and you want to call the
layout list on the school record
now the textview should have the IDS TV
name TV artist and TV summary with the
appropriate tech capitalization and all
three should grow in height to match
their contents
now the artists our textview should also
be able to grow wider if necessary to
accommodate longer artist names so you
want to make sure that all the necessary
constraints are created so that the
widgets will appear in the correct
position when the layouts displayed and
will remain below each other so
experiment with the font sizes and bold
so that the text will look similar to
what you can see on the screen there
with that image alright so that's the
challenge say hey you go with it pause
the video now and complete the challenge
and I'll see you when you get back pause
the video now
all right so I'm going to start by
ensuring
I've got the layout folder expanded you
can see here I've done that and then I'm
going to right-click on the layout
folder click on new and select layout
resource file and if you recall from the
challenge the power name we want is list
underscore record the root element we're
dealing with constraint layouts so it
should become straight layer so I'm just
going to specify enough for top enough
characters until that's specified then
double click and as you saw there
everything was just fine at that point
so I'm just click on OK and that's
obviously showing it on the screen there
now I'm just going to close down the
project pane for now think of this a bit
more space and I'm going to start by
setting the default margin because most
margins are going to be 16 DP so I'm
going to come up here to the default and
specify 16 that's the default margin and
I'm also going to make sure auto connect
is off you can see there that I've got
the slash through it so that
auto-connect is off next we're going to
drag three text views into the design
now I'm going to show one way to
constrain the widgets to get the effect
we want but it's not the only way there
was long as your constraints keep the
text views where they should be and
allow them to grow without overlapping
then that's fine all right so let's go
through and add three text views
all right so I'm going to start off now
I'm going to constrain the first view of
the first text view to the top left and
right edges of the layouts I'm going to
go ahead and do that so I left first
then top and then right then we set the
default margins of 16 which is correct
for left to right but for the top margin
I'm going to actually change that to 8
so it's a little bit closer towards the
top then the ID for this one instead of
text view is going to be TV name and we
want to set its width to match
constraint and that's how it can fill
the layout horizontally if necessary now
the layout height that's going to be set
to wrap content so that the text view
can grow down the screen to accommodate
all the text it contains and you can see
there that's already set to wrap content
so I don't need to make the change now
for the text size you're not restricted
to the values that appear in the
drop-down by the way so in come down
here in the text size I click on that
you don't have to select one of those
instead you can actually type it so I'm
going to come up here and just type in
20 SP which is a reasonable size and
press Enter
it's finally gonna come down here in a
text style and click on B which is bold
and you can see that's impede bold now
in the design so basically we've got
match constraint wrap content size of 20
SP now just type that in again I'm not
sure what happened there at 20 SP and
you can see that the text is now larger
so that's correct and we are still
bolded all right so moving deer the next
widget will click on that next text view
this one we're going to have the ID of
TV artist now it's top edge should be
constrained to the bottom edge of TV
name so let's do that first so top edge
constrain to the bottom of TV note and
also the right edge should be
constrained to the right edge of the
layout I'm going to go ahead and do that
now I'm not going to constrain the left
edge to start with this is something
that you need to watch out for here now
because this text view is constrained to
the right edge of the layout and it's a
width at the moment is set to wrap
content the text in it's going to appear
up against the right edge of the screen
and the widget will expand to the left
if it needs to so that's fine just be
careful if you change the width to match
constraint though and just see what I
mean for changing the width from the or
too much constraint now only use much
constraint for the layout width or
layout height if you've got a constraint
set on both of the edges you know if
layout then let's call width is set to
match constraint which I've done here
now then you need to constrain the left
and right edges if they are high to set
too much constraint then the top and
bottom edges should be constrained and
if you think about it match constraint
means that the size of the widget is
constrained between the two boundaries
and if one of the boundaries isn't
defined it's really hard for anything to
work out what the results should be now
you'll often get away with it for the
width but if you do it for the height
you can get our results you know widgets
overlapping other widgets is a common
symptom of using Matt's constraint when
only one edge is constrained
now as I've changed the widget to Matt's
constraint let's see how to use it
properly here now we need to constrain
the left hand edge to the left of the
layout so that both edges are
constrained now we did have the text
view positioned at the right hand side
which gave the effect we wanted note
that our text view feels the width of
the screen so let's go ahead and do that
because train it to the left so you can
see now that's the text view feelings
the width of the screen we're going to
take a different approach though and
position the text to the right of the
text view now there's actually a quick
way to do that using the text alignment
attribute and we can come down here and
see that text alignment there's five
options there so the first two here they
actually align the text to the left the
difference though is at the first K is
for right-to-left languages now this
middle button that's sent as the text in
the text view and the last two over here
they write align the text again catering
for right-to-left languages so if you
choose the one with a vertical bar the
in here that's the one we're gonna be
using so I'm gonna click on that okay so
I touched on that and in an earlier
section there's two approaches to
changing the alignment of something and
we used in an image in the earlier
example you can align the widget within
the layout which is what we did with our
text for you to start with or you can
align the widgets contents inside the
widget which is what we're now doing now
there's often no difference between the
two approaches they're just different
ways to achieve the same effect
now before we constrain the third
textview I want to get this one the same
right and left margins as TV name to
make sure that that's specified 16 which
is correct but a top margin of 0 so we
go ahead and do that the reason is text
views have internal padding so there's
no need to have a top margin here for
most rows the name will be over to the
left and the artists over to the right
so there's really no snow need in this
particular case to space them apart and
lastly a text size of 418 SP is probably
sufficient here so we'll do that and the
other thing we'll do is just make sure
that it's sawn
make it sure that it's set to bold okay
so that's T V artists now the third one
third text view we're going to call that
TV summary so I click on that I D TV
summary now it's gonna have its top edge
constrained to the bottom edge of T V
artist and it's right and left edges
constrained to the layout so let's go
ahead and do that so do the right left
first in a so mention we're going to set
the top edge constraint to the bottom
edge of T V artist we want to make sure
the layout width is set to match
constraint you know the default font
size of 14 is probably okay for this one
I'm gonna set the top margin to 8 that's
a little bit closer all right so I'll
flick over to the XML and just make sure
that it's formatted or the last few
times I've done that I haven't needed to
do anything that's all nicely four
minutes and that's good
okay so now that we've got a view to use
to display the fields of our feed entry
objects it's time to create our own
adapter to extend the base functionality
of the array adapter now if you remember
from the discussion about how the
ListView and adapt to work together the
adapter provides the list view with a
populated view to display now the
current array adapters probably quite
easy to understand because it uses a
single textview ask the view that it
sends to the list to the list view to
display but here we've got three
different text views so how does that
actually work if we just open the
project pane and have a look at a list
underscore item that XML now when we set
up the textview in the list underscore
item XML view we created it just just to
contain literally a single textview you
see everything app textview so that was
pretty straightforward the array adapter
just uses this XML to create a textview
and then it puts the objects text into
it before sending it to the ListView but
go back to our list underscore record on
XML here we've got these three text
views but they're all contained within
the constraint layout view and you can
see that in the component tree so I can
street layout then there's the three
text views contrasting that to the list
of a score item is literally just a text
- so basically constraint layout in this
particular case for list underscore
record in XML that's also a view so
technically it's a view group but a view
group is really just another kind of
view now the ListView widget is quite
happy to be given a constraint layout
for the view it should use and it will
display the constraint layout including
any other widgets that it contains so
keep in mind that when we talk about the
adapter sending a view to the ListView
you can either send a single widget such
as the textview that we're currently
using or it can really see but it can
also send back a view that contains
other views as we're about to do for
lists tunnels called record dot XML so
this view will happily display any view
that it's given even if that view
contains other views so what we're going
to do with our custom adapter is change
the text in each of the text views and
send them all to the ListView
packaged inside the constraint layout
view so we'll create our custom adapter
in the next video